Personal statement for university application 2015


I have been fascinated with the design and construction of complex systems for as long as I can remember, especially the devices that drive modern life: computers. It is because of my avid interest in the interaction between 
hardware and software that I have chosen to apply for a joint course in computer science and electronic engineering.

From a young age, I have endeavoured to learn as much as I can about the world of digital systems, reading everything from New Scientist magazines to Python textbooks. I aim to carry this desire for learning on throughout 
university and later life.

Having begun teaching myself to program computers at around the age of 10, I have gone on to write many complex pieces of software. These include simulators for a number of microprocessors, such as AVR and 6502, and even some of 
my own microprocessor designs. Despite my existing experience with computer programming, I believe studying at a higher institution will enable me to refine my skills and, more importantly, contribute towards cutting-edge 
research.

My choice of A level subjects have improved my problem solving and analytical skills, which I feel will be very beneficial to me during my time at university. Through my A level Computing coursework I designed, built and tested a 
large computer program, giving me experience of how software development is conducted in industry.

Last year I attended a number of lectures organised by Birmingham University's Chemistry department. I wanted to take the opportunity to learn more about chemistry than is covered by the A level syllabus, and I was also intrigued 
to find out more about lectures and university life.

Earlier this year I participated in a small robotics competition hosted by the school. My team-mate and I were delighted to win first place in the competition, having built and programmed a Lego Mindstorms robot to locate a 
coloured ball and carry it along a track. Robotics is a field of electronics and computer science that has particularly fascinated me, and considering the latest developments in the field (such as Google's recently announced 
Project Wing programme) I believe it will only grow in importance over the coming years. It is for these reasons that I greatly hope to obtain a place in this year's national Student Robotics competition.

In 2013 I attended a week of work experience at Pengower, a local software company who provide a platform as a service to other, non-technical companies. During this period I aided in testing the platform and used the results of 
this testing to improve the software. I found this week to be very influential, giving me valuable industrial experience.

Outside of school, I have taken part in the national Young Rewired State competition, in which teams of under-18 developers each create an application using government data. I led the development of the backend for a web 
application that allowed users to view statistics about a postcode such as crime rates and proximity to services. My team and I were awarded Best Example of Coding for our use of a modular technique in our code, and as a prize we 
received the parts for a 3D printer, which we assembled together over the following weeks. Overcoming the challenges we faced during both the competition and the construction of the 3D printer has further enhanced my critical 
thinking and teamworking abilities.

I hope that this personal statement demonstrates that I am a passionate learner, an able problem solver, a reliable teamworker and someone who can enthusiatically contribute to the life-changing research of the most important 
field of our time.

